One of the most
exciting moments of
any machine learning
project is when you
get to deploy your model,
but what makes deployment hard?
I think there are
two major categories
of challenges in deploying
a machine learning model.
First, are the machine learning
or the statistical issues,
and second, are the
software engine issues.
Let's start with both of
these so that you can
understand what you need to do to
make sure that you have
a successful deployment
of your system.
One of the challenges of
a lot of deployments is,
concept drift and, data drift.
Loosely, this means what if
your data changes after
your system has
already been deployed?
I had previously given an example
from manufacturing
where you might have
trained a learning
algorithm to detect
scratches on smartphones under
one set of lighting conditions,
and then maybe the lighting
in the factory changes.
That's one example of the
distribution of data changers.
Let's walk through
a second example
using speech recognition.
I train a few speech
recognition systems,
and when I built speech systems,
quite often I would have
some purchased data.
This would be some
purchased or licensed data,
which includes both the input x,
the audio, as well
as the transcript
y that the speech system
supports it's output.
In addition to data
that you might purchase
from a vendor,
you might also have
historical user data
of user speaking to
your application together with
transcripts of that
raw user data.
Such user data, of course,
should be collected with
very clear user opt-in
permission and clear
safeguards for user privacy.
After you've trained your
speech recognition system
on a data set like this,
you might then evaluate
it on a test set,
but because speech data
does change over time,
when I build speech
recognition systems,
sometimes I would collect
a dev set or hold
out validation set
as well as test set
comprising data from just
the last few months.
You can test it on
fairly recent data to make
sure your system works,
even on relatively recent data.
After you push the system to
deployments, the question is,
will the data change
or after you've
run it for a few weeks
or a few months,
has the data changed yet again?
The data has changed,
such as the language
changes or maybe people
are using a brand new model of
smartphone which has a
different microphone,
so the audio sounds different,
then the performance of
a speech recognition
system can degrade.
It's important for you to
recognize how the
data has changed,
and if you need to update
your learning
algorithm as a result.
When data changes, sometimes
it is a gradual change,
such as the English
language which does change,
but changes very slowly
with new vocabulary
introduced at a
relatively slow rate.
Sometimes data changes very
suddenly where there's a
sudden shock to a system.
For example, when COVID-19
the pandemic hit,
a lot of credit card fraud
systems started to not work
because the purchase patterns
of individuals suddenly changed.
Many people that did relatively
little online shopping
suddenly started to use
much more online shopping.
The way that people were using
credit cards changed
very suddenly,
and his actually tripped up
a lot of anti fraud systems.
This very sudden shift to
the data distribution meant
that many machine learning
teams were scrambling
a little bit at the start of
COVID to collect new
data and retrain
systems in order to make them
adapt to this very new
data distribution.
Sometimes the terminology
of how to describe
these data changes is not
used completely consistently,
but sometimes the term
data drift is used to
describe if the input
distribution x changes,
such as if a new politician or
celebrity suddenly becomes well
known and he's mentioned
much more than before.
The term concept drift refers
to if the desired mapping.
From x to y changes such
as if, before COVID-19.
Perhaps for a given user,
a lot of surprising
online purchases,
should have flagged
that account for fraud.
After the start of COVID-19,
maybe those same purchases,
would not have really
been any cause for alarm,
in terms of flagging.
That the credit card
may have been stolen.
Another example of Concept drift,
let's say that x is
the size of a house,
and y is the price of a house,
because you're trying to
estimate housing prices.
If because of inflation
or changes in the market,
houses may become more
expensive over time.
The same size house,
will end up with a higher price.
That would be Concept drift.
Maybe the size of
houses haven't changed,
but the price of a
given house changes.
Whereas data drift would be if,
say, people start
building larger houses,
or start building
smaller houses and
thus the input distribution of
the sizes of houses
actually changes over time.
When you deploy a
machine learning system,
one of the most important tasks,
will often be to
make sure you can
detect and manage any changes.
Including both Concept drift,
which is when the definition of
what is y given x changes.
As well as Data drift,
which is if the
distribution of x changes,
even if the mapping from
x or y does not change.
In addition to managing
these changes to the data,
a second set of issues,
that you will have to
manage to deploy a
system successfully,
are Software engineering issues.
You are implementing
a prediction service
whose job it is to
take queries x and
output prediction y,
you have a lot of
design choices as
to how to implement
this piece of software.
Here's a checklist of questions,
that might help you with making
the appropriate decisions for
managing the software
engineering issues.
One decision you have to make
for your application is,
do you need Real time predictions
or are Batch predictions?
For example, if you are
building a speech
recognition system,
where the user speaks
and you need to get
a response back,
in half a second,
then clearly you need
real time predictions.
In contrast, I have
also built systems,
for hospitals that
take patient records.
Take electronic health
records and run
an overnight batch
process to see if there's
something associated with the
patients, that we can spot.
In that type of system,
it was fine if we just ran it,
in a batch of patient
records once per night.
Whether you need to write
real time software,
they can respond within
hundreds of milliseconds or
whether you can
write software that
just does a lot of
computation overnight,
that will affect how you
implement your software.
By the way, later this week,
you also get to step
through an optional
programming exercise,
where you get to implement
a real time prediction service,
on your own computer.
You see that at the optional
exercise at the end of this week.
Second question you
need to ask is,
does your prediction
service run into clouds or
does it run at the edge or
maybe even in a Web browser?
Today there are many
speech recognition systems
that run in the cloud,
because having the compute
resources of the cloud,
allows for more accurate
speech recognition.
There are also some speech
systems, for example,
a lot of speech
systems within cars,
actually run at the edge.
There are also some mobile speech
recognition systems that work,
even if your Wi-Fi is turned off.
Those would be examples of
speech systems that
run at the edge.
When I am deploying
visual inspection
systems in factories,
I pretty much almost always
run that at the edge as well.
Because sometimes unavoidably,
the Internet connection
between the factory,
and the rest of the
Internet may go down.
You just can't afford to
shut down the factory,
whenever its Internet
connection goes down,
which happens very rarely
but maybe sometimes does happen.
With the rise of
modern Web browsers,
there are better tools,
for deploying
learning algorithms,
right there within a
Web browser as well.
When building a
prediction service,
it's also useful to
take into account,
how much computer
resources you have.
There have been quite a few
times where I trained a
neural network on a
very powerful GPU,
only to realize that
I couldn't afford
an equally powerful set
of GPUs for deployments,
and wound up having to
do something else to
compress or reduce
the model complexity.
If you know how much CPU or
GPU resources and maybe also
how much memory resources you
have for your prediction service,
then that could help you choose
the right software architecture.
Depending on your application
especially if it's
real-time application,
latency and throughputs such
as measured in terms of QPS,
queries per second, will be
other software engineering metrics
you may need to hit.
In speech recognition
is not uncommon to
want to get an answer
back to the user,
within half a second
or 500 milliseconds.
Of this 500
millisecond budget you
may be able to allocate only say,
300 milliseconds to your
speech recognition.
That gives a latency
requirement for your system.
Throughput refers to
how many queries per
second do you need to
handle given your
compute resources,
maybe given a certain
number of Cloud Service.
For example, if you're building
a system that needs to
handle 1000 queries per second,
it would be useful to
make sure to check out
your system so that you have
enough computer resources,
to hit the QPS requirement.
Next is logging, when building
your system it may
be useful to log as
much of the data as possible
for analysis and review as well
as to provide more data
for retraining your learning
algorithm in the future.
Finally, security and privacy,
I find it for
different applications
the required levels of
security and privacy
can be very different.
For example, when I was working
on electronic health
records, patient records,
clearly the requirements for
security and privacy
were very high
because patient records are
very highly sensitive
information.
Depending on your application
you might want to design
in the appropriate level
of security and privacy,
based on how sensitive
that data is
and also sometimes based on
regulatory requirements.
If you save this
checklist somewhere,
going through this
when you're designing
your software might
help you to make
the appropriate
software engine choices
when implementing your
prediction service.
To summarize, deploying a system
requires two broad sets
of tasks: there is
writing the software to
enable you to deploy the
system in production.
There is what you
need to do to monitor
the system performance and
to continue to maintain it,
especially in the
face of concepts
drift as well as data drift.
One of the things
you see when you're
building machine
learning systems is that
the practices for the
very first deployments
will be quite different compared
to when you are
updating or maintaining
a system that has already
previously been deployed.
I know that to some engineers
that view deploying
the machine learning model as
getting to the finish line.
Unfortunately, I think
the first deployment
means you may be only
about halfway there,
and the second half
of your work is just
starting only after
your first deployment,
because even after you've
deployed there's a lot of work
to feed the data back and
maybe to update the model,
to keep on maintaining the model
even in the face of
changes to the data.
One of the things we touch on
the later videos is some of
the differences between
the first deployment,
such as if your product
never had the speech
recognition system.
But you've trained the
speech recognition system
and you're deploying
for the first time,
versus you already have had
the learning of running
for some time and
you want to maintain or
update that implementation.
To summarize, in this video,
you saw some of the
machine learning or
statistical related issues such
as concept drift and data drift.
As well as some of the software
engineering-related
issues such as,
whether you need a batch or
real-time prediction service,
and whether the compute
and memory requirements
you have to take into account.
Now, it turns out that when
you're deploying a
machine learning model,
there are a number of
common design patterns,
a common deployment
patterns that are used
in many applications across
many different industries.
In the next video,
you'll see what are some of
the most common
deployment patterns,
so that you can
hopefully pick the
right one for your application.
Let's go on to the next video.